Day 1:
Q1. What is the difference between AI, Data Science, ML, and DL?
Q2. What is the difference between Supervised learning, Unsupervised learning, and Reinforcement learning?
Q3. Describe the general architecture of Machine learning.
Q4. What is Linear Regression?
Q5. OLS Stats Model (Ordinary Least Square)
Q6. What is L1 Regularization (L1 = lasso)?
Q7. L2 Regularization (L2 = Ridge Regression)
Q8. What is R square (where to use and where not)?
Q9. What is Mean Square Error?
Q10. Why Support Vector Regression? Difference between SVR and a simple regression model?

Day 2:
Q1. What is Logistic Regression?
Q2. Difference between logistic and linear regression?
Q3. Why we can’t do a classification problem using Regression?
Q4. What is Decision Tree?
Q5. Entropy, Information Gain, Gini Index, Reducing Impurity?
Q6. How to control leaf height and Pruning?
Q7. How to handle a decision tree for numerical and categorical data?
Q8. What is the Random Forest Algorithm?
Q9. What is Variance and Bias tradeoff?
Q10. What are Ensemble Methods?
Q11. What is SVM Classification?
Q12. What is Naive Bayes Classification and Gaussian Naive Bayes
Q13. What is the Confusion Matrix?
Q14. What is Accuracy and Misclassification Rate?
Q15. True Positive Rate & True Negative Rate
Q16. What are F1 Score, precision and recall?
Q17. What is RandomizedSearchCV?
Q18. What is GridSearchCV?
Q19. What is BaysianSearchCV?
Q20. What is ZCA Whitening?

Day 3:
Q1. How do you treat heteroscedasticity in regression?
Q2. What is multicollinearity, and how do you treat it?
Q3. What is market basket analysis? How would you do it in Python?
Q4. What is Association Analysis? Where is it used?
Q5. What is KNN Classifier ?
Q6. What is Pipeline in sklearn ?
Q7. What is Principal Component Analysis(PCA), and why we do?
Q8. What is t-SNE?
Q9. VIF(Variation Inflation Factor),Weight of Evidence & Information Value. Why and when to use?
Q10: How to evaluate that data does not have any outliers ?
Q11: What you do if there are outliers?
Q12: What are the encoding techniques you have applied with Examples ?
Q13: Tradeoff between bias and variances, the relationship between them.
Q14: What is the difference between Type 1 and Type 2 error and severity of the error?
Q15: What is binomial distribution and polynomial distribution?
Q16: What is the Mean Median Mode standard deviation for the
sample and population?
Q17: What is Mean Absolute Error ?
Q18: What is the difference between long data and wide data?
Q19: What are the data normalization method you have applied, and why?
Q20: What is the difference between normalization and Standardization with example?


Day 4:

Q1. What is upsampling and downsampling with examples?
Q2. What is the statistical test for data validation with an example, Chi-square, ANOVA test, Z statics, T statics, F statics, Hypothesis Testing?
Q3. What is the Central limit theorem?
Q4. What is the correlation and coefficient?
Q5: What is the difference between machine learning and deep
learning?
Q6: What is perceptron and how it is related to human neurons?
Q7: Why deep learning is better than machine learning?
Q8: What kind of problem can be solved by using deep learning?
Q9: List down all the activation function using mathematical
Expression and example. What is the activation function?
Q10: Detail explanation about gradient decent using example and
Mathematical expression?
Q11: What is backward propagation?
Q12: How we assign weights in deep learning?
Q13: What is optimiser is deep learning, and which one is the best?
Q14: What is gradient descent, mini-batch gradient descent, batch
gradient decent, stochastic gradient decent and adam?
Q15: What are autoencoders?
Q16: What is CNN?
Q17: What is pooling, padding, filtering operations on CNN?
Q18: What is the Evolution technique of CNN?
Q19: How to initialise biases in deep learning?
Q20: What is learning Rate?


Day 5:

1️⃣ What are Epochs?
2️⃣ What is the batch size?
3️⃣ What is dropout in Neural network?
4️⃣ List down hyperparameter tuning in deep learning.
5️⃣ What do you understand by activation function and error functions?
6️⃣ Why do we need Non-linear activation functions?
7️⃣ What do you understand by vanishing gradient problem and how can we solve that?
8️⃣ What is Transfer learning in deep learning?
9️⃣ What is VGG16 and explain the architecture of VGG16?
🔟 What is RESNET?
1️⃣1️⃣ What is ImageNet?
1️⃣2️⃣ What is DarkNet?
1️⃣3️⃣ What is YOLO and explain the architecture of YOLO (you only Look Once). One use case?

Day 6:

1️⃣ What is NLP?
2️⃣ What are the Libraries we used for NLP?
3️⃣ What do you understand by tokenization?
4️⃣ What do you understand by stemming?
5️⃣ What is lemmatisation?
6️⃣ What is the Bag-of-words model?
7️⃣ What do you understand by TF-IDF?
8️⃣ What is Word2vec?
9️⃣ What is Doc2vec?
🔟 What is Time-Series forecasting?
1️⃣1️⃣ What is the difference between Time series and regression?
1️⃣2️⃣ What is the difference between stationary and non-stationary data?
1️⃣3️⃣ Why can't we use non-stationary data to solve time series problems?

Day 7:
1️⃣ What is the process to make data stationery from non-stationary in time series?
2️⃣ What is the process to check stationary data?
3️⃣ What are ACF and PACF?
4️⃣ What do you understand by the trend of data?
5️⃣ What is the Augmented Dickey-Fuller Test?
6️⃣ What are AIC and BIC into time series?
7️⃣ What are the components of the Time-Series?
8️⃣ What is Time Series Analysis?
9️⃣ Give some examples of the Time-Series forecast?
🔟 What are the techniques of Forecasting?
1️⃣1️⃣ What is the Moving Average?
1️⃣2️⃣ What is Exponential smoothing?

 Day 8:

1️⃣ What is Tensorflow?
2️⃣ What are Tensors?
3️⃣ What is TensorBoard?
4️⃣ What are the features of TensorFlow?
5️⃣ What are the advantages of TensorFlow?
6️⃣ List a few limitations of TensorFlow.
7️⃣ What are the use cases of Tensorflow?
8️⃣ What are the very important steps of Tensorflow architecture?
9️⃣ What is Keras?
🔟 What is a pooling layer?
1️⃣1️⃣ What is the difference between CNN and RNN?
1️⃣2️⃣ What are the benefits of Tensorflow over other libraries?


Day 9:
1️⃣ How would you define Machine Learning?
2️⃣ What is a labeled training set?
3️⃣ What are the two common supervised tasks?
4️⃣ Can you name four common unsupervised tasks?
5️⃣ What type of Machine Learning algorithm we use to allow a robot to walk in various unknown terrains?
6️⃣ What type of algorithm would we use to segment your customers into multiple groups?
7️⃣ What is online machine learning?
8️⃣ What is out-of-core learning?
9️⃣ What is the Model Parameter?
1️⃣1️⃣ What is Model Hyperparameter?
1️⃣2️⃣ What is cross-validation?

Day 10:

1️⃣ What is a Recommender System?
2️⃣ Compare SAS, R, and Python programming.
3️⃣ Why is important in data analysis?
4️⃣ What are the various aspects of a Machine Learning process?
5️⃣ What is Interpolation and Extrapolation?
6️⃣ What does P-value signify about the statistical data?
7️⃣ During analysis, how do you treat missing values?
8️⃣ Explain the difference between a Test Set and a Validation Set?
9️⃣ What is the curse of dimensionality? Can you list some ways to deal with it?
🔟 What is data augmentation? Can you give some examples?

Day 11:

1️⃣ What are tensors?
2️⃣ Define the concept of RNN?
3️⃣ What is a ResNet, and where would you use it? Is it efficient?
4️⃣ Transfer learning is one of the most useful concepts today. Where can it be used?
5️⃣ What does tuning of hyperparameters signify? Explain with examples
6️⃣ Why are deep learning models referred as black boxes?
7️⃣ Why do we have gates in neural networks?
8️⃣ What is a Sobel filter?
9️⃣ What is the purpose of a Boltzmann Machine?
🔟 What are the types of weight initialization?


Day 12:
1️⃣ Where is the confusion matrix used? Which module would you use to show it?
2️⃣ What is Accuracy?
3️⃣ What is Precision?
4️⃣ What is Recall?
5️⃣ What is F1 Score?
6️⃣ What is Bias and Variance trade-off?
7️⃣ What is data wrangling? Mention three points to consider in the process.
8️⃣ Why is normalization required before applying any machine learning model? What module can you use to perform normalization?
9️⃣ What is the difference between feature selection and feature extraction?
🔟 Why is polarity and subjectivity an issue?
1️⃣1️⃣ When would you use ARIMA?

Day 13:

1️⃣ What is Autoregression?
2️⃣ What is Moving Average?
3️⃣ What is Autoregressive Moving Average (ARMA)?
4️⃣ What is Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA)?
5️⃣ What is SARIMA (Seasonal Autoregressive Integrated Moving-Average)?
6️⃣ What is Seasonal Autoregressive Integrated Moving-Average with Exogenous Regressors (SARIMAX)?
7️⃣ What is Vector autoregression (VAR)?
8️⃣ What is Vector Autoregression Moving-Average (VARMA)?
9️⃣ What is Vector Autoregression Moving-Average with Exogenous Regressors (VARMAX)?
🔟 What is Simple Exponential Smoothing (SES)?

Day 14:

1️⃣ What is Alexnet?
2️⃣ What is VGGNet?
3️⃣ What is VGG16?
4️⃣ What is ResNet?
5️⃣ What is HAAR CASCADE?
6️⃣ What is Transfer Learning?
7️⃣ What is Faster R-CNN?
8️⃣ What is R-CNN?
9️⃣ What is GoogLeNet/Inception?
🔟 What is LeNet-5?

Day 15:

1️⃣ What is Autoencoder?
2️⃣ What Is Text Similarity?
3️⃣ What is a dropout in neural networks?
4️⃣ What is Forward Propagation?
5️⃣ What is Text Mining?
6️⃣ What is Information Extraction?
7️⃣ What is Text Generation?
8️⃣ What is Text Summarization?
9️⃣ What is Topic Modelling?
🔟 What are Hidden Markov Models?

Day 16:

1️⃣ What is Statistics Learning?
2️⃣ What is ANOVA?
3️⃣ What is ANCOVA?
4️⃣ What is MANOVA?
5️⃣ What is MANCOVA?
6️⃣ Explain the differences between the KNN classifier and KNN regression methods.
7️⃣ What is a t-test?
8️⃣ What is Z-test?
9️⃣ What is the Chi-Square test?
🔟 What are correlation and covariance in statistics?

Day 17:

1️⃣ What is ERM (Empirical Risk Minimization)?
2️⃣ What is PAC (Probably Approximately Correct)?
3️⃣ What is ELMo?
4️⃣ What is Pragmatic Analysis in NLP?
5️⃣ What is Syntactic Parsing?
6️⃣ What is ULMFit?
7️⃣ What is BERT?
8️⃣ What is XLNet?
9️⃣ What is the transformer?
🔟 What is Text summarization?

Day 18:
1️⃣ What is Levenshtein Algorithm?
2️⃣ What is Soundex?
3️⃣ What is Constituency parse?
4️⃣ What is LDA (Latent Dirichlet Allocation)?
5️⃣ What is LSA?
6️⃣ What is PLSA?
7️⃣ What is LDA2Vec?
8️⃣ What is Expectation-Maximization Algorithm (EM)?
9️⃣ What is Text classification in NLP?
🔟 What is Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD)?


 Day 19:
1️⃣ What is LSI (Latent Semantic Indexing)?
2️⃣ What is Named Entity Recognition? And tell some use cases of NER?
3️⃣ What is perplexity?
4️⃣ What is the language model?
5️⃣ What is Word Embedding?
6️⃣ Do you have an idea about fastText?
7️⃣ What is GloVe?
8️⃣ Explain Gensim?
9️⃣ What is Encoder-Decoder Architecture?
🔟 What is Context2Vec?


Day 20:
1️⃣ Do you have any idea about Event2Mind in NLP?
2️⃣ What is SWAG in NLP?
3️⃣ What is the Pix2Pix network?
4️⃣ Explain UNet Architecture?
5️⃣ What is pair2vec?
6️⃣ What is Meta-Learning?
7️⃣ What is ALiPy (Active Learning in Python)?
8️⃣ What is the Lingvo model?
9️⃣ What is Dropout Neural Networks?
🔟 What is GAN?

Day 21:

1️⃣ Explain Grad-CAM architecture?
2️⃣ Explain squeeze-net architecture?
3️⃣ ZFNet architecture
4️⃣ What is NAS (Neural Architecture Search)?
5️⃣ What is SENets?
6️⃣ Feature Pyramid Network (FPN)
7️⃣ DeepID-Net (Def-Pooling Layer)
8️⃣ What is FractalNet Architecture?
9️⃣ What is the SSPNet architecture?

Day 22:

1️⃣ Explain V-Net (Volumetric Convolution) Architecture related to Biomedical Image Segmentation?
2️⃣ Highway Networks- Gating Function to highway
3️⃣ What is DetNAS: Neural Architecture Search(NAS) on Object Detection?
4️⃣ Do you have any idea about ECE (Emotion cause extraction).
5️⃣ What is DST (Dialogue state tracking)?
6️⃣ What is NMT(Neural machine translation)?
7️⃣ What is Character-Level models (CLM)?
8️⃣ What is the LexNLP package?
9️⃣ Explain The Architecture of LeNet-5.

Day 23:
1️⃣ Explain Overfeat in Object Detection.
2️⃣ What is Multipath: Multiple Probabilistic Anchor Trajectory Hypotheses for Behavior Prediction?
3️⃣ An Object detection approach using MR-CNN
4️⃣ Object detection using Segmentation-aware CNN
5️⃣ What is CRAFT (Object detection)?
6️⃣ Explain YOLOv1 for Object Detection.
7️⃣ Adversarial Examples Improve Image Recognition
8️⃣ Advancing NLP with Cognitive Language Processing Signals
9️⃣ Do you have any idea how can we use NLP on News headlines to predict index trends?

Day 24:
1️⃣ What is STN?
2️⃣ What is decaNLP?
3️⃣ Universal Transformers
4️⃣ What is StarSpace in NLP?
5️⃣ TransferTransfo in NLP
6️⃣ Wizard of Wikipedia: Knowledge-Powered Conversational Agents
7️⃣ ERASER: A Benchmark to Evaluate Rationalized NLP Models
8️⃣ End to End memory networks
9️⃣ What is LinkNet?

Day 25:

1️⃣. What is WRN?
2️⃣. What is SIMCO: SIMilarity-based object Counting?
3️⃣. What is Voice-Face Cross-modal Matching and Retrieval?
4️⃣. What is CenterNet: Object Detection with Keypoint Triplets?
5️⃣. What is Task2Vec: Task Embedding for Meta-Learning?
6️⃣. What is GLMNet: Graph Learning-Matching Networks for Feature Matching?
7️⃣. What is SSAP: Single-Shot Instance Segmentation With Affinity Pyramid?
8️⃣. What is TENER: Adapting Transformer Encoder for Name Entity Recognition?
9️⃣. What is Subword ELMo?


Day 26:

1️⃣ What is DCGANs (Deep Convolutional Generative Adversarial Networks)?
2️⃣ Explain EnAET.
3️⃣ What is Data Embedding Learning?
4️⃣ Do you have any idea about Rookie?
5️⃣ SECRET: Semantically Enhanced Classification of Real-world Tasks
6️⃣ Semantic bottleneck for computer vision tasks
7️⃣ Gender Bias in Neural Natural Language Processing
8️⃣ DSReg: Using Distant Supervision as a Regularizer
9️⃣ What is Multimodal Emotion Classification?


Day 27:

1️⃣ Learning to Caption Images with Two-Stream Attention and Sentence Auto-Encoder
2️⃣ Explain PQ-NET.
3️⃣ What is EDIT?
4️⃣ What is Doctor2Vec?
5️⃣ Explain PAG-Net.
6️⃣ An End-to-End Audio Classification System based on Raw Waveforms and Mix-Training Strategy
7️⃣ What is Cnak? : Cluster Number Assisted K-means
8️⃣ What is D3S?
9️⃣ What is DRNet?

Day 28:

❶ Explain StructEdit (Learning Structural Shape Variations).
❷ EmpGAN: Multi-resolution Interactive Empathetic Dialogue Generation.
❸ G-TAD: Sub-Graph Localization for Temporal Action Detection.
❹ What is F3Net?
❺ Natural Language Generation using Reinforcement Learning with External Rewards.
❻ LaFIn: Generative Landmark Guided Face Inpainting.
❼ Image2StyleGAN++: How to Edit the Embedded Images?
❽ oops! Predicting Unintentional Action in Video.
❾ FairyTED: A Fair Rating Predictor for TED Talk Data.

Day 29:

1️⃣ What is SuperGlue?
2️⃣ What is MixNMatch?
3️⃣ FAN: Feature Adaptation Network
5️⃣ WSOD with PSNet and Box Regression
6️⃣ Autonomous Driving Assistance Systems (ADAS) and Vehicle Automation.
7️⃣ Robot Learning and Execution of Collaborative Manipulation Plans from YouTube Videos.
8️⃣ JEC-QA: A Legal-Domain Question Answering Dataset
9️⃣ SpoC: Spoofing Camera Fingerprints

 Day 30:

1️⃣ Tell me about your current project.
2️⃣ What was the size of the data?
3️⃣ What was the data type?
4️⃣ What was the team size and distribution?
5️⃣ What Hadoop distribution were you using?
6️⃣ What is the version of distribution?
7️⃣ What was the size of the cluster?
8️⃣ How many nodes were there in all the Dev, UAT, and Prod environments?
9️⃣ How were you creating and maintaining the logs?


